if I'm being shown this and I'm
imagining that what actually is out
there that I'm not even beginning to
imagine the year is 1994 Nick cook the
aviation editor for James defense weekly
walks into his office and notices
someone has placed a photo copy of a
strange magazine article from 1956 on
his desk what it showed was it sort of
looked like a UFO kind of with a ladder
coming out of it over a dry lake bed and
a pilot an Air Force pilot climbing out
of this thing it's titled the G engines
are coming and it lists the top
aerospace companies of the day Lear
conver Bell the Martin Corporation
before its merger with locked all
expressing extreme confidence in being
able to develop anti-gravity aircraft
within the next several years one of the
people quoted is George S Trimble the VP
of Martin corporation's research instit
in for advanced study he says that human
control of gravity could be done in
about the time it took to build the
first atom bomb but by the early 1960s
there were no G engines no weightless
craft or man-made UFOs and the whole
industry kind of went silent on the
subject and I I filed it away until I
ran into a
locked PR exec I knew pretty well and I
said I'd like to interview George
Trimble because it just sounded
intriguing the old VP initially seemed
open to the interview but a few days
later Nick got a call from his locked
contact who relayed a message from
Trimble he doesn't want to speak to me
and he doesn't want to speak to you not
now not ever I don't mind telling you
that he sounded scared scared scared
scared it is that moment when you go
okay well if I wasn't interested before
I am now
yeah that's Nick cook and those were
real life moments from his incredible
book The Hunt for zero point the book is
the most comprehensive documentation to
date of aerospace's formerly unknown yet
very deep inquiries into the world of
anti-grab you're looking at something
that is a complete Quantum Leap if
you're making something that is an ant
some sort of a gravity propulsion system
and you've made a breakthrough you're
not going to put that on wire.com
Nick isn't a wooo U aona he spent
decades as a correspondent and then
editor for the prestigious British
military publication James defense
weekly entrusted at the highest levels
he traveled the world and interviewed
Executives at locked Boeing Northrup
rathon and many others I had a pretty
much unlimited kind of travel budget
attached to me it was a global brief I
could go anywhere and in the 80s and
'90s cook began hunting down what he
wasn't being shown classified stealth
and supersonic aircraft in the black
world that hadn't reach the public he
did this along with his colleague Bill
Sweetman bill was a kind of Sherlock
Holmes he would piece together clues
that the black World left or hadn't even
intended to leave in public most notably
they've uncovered some pretty strong
circumstantial evidence of the long
rumored mock 5 locked Aurora aircraft
but more on that later I always felt
like I'm just scratching the surface of
what's really going on here
[Music]
I can seriously say with a straight face
that the hunt for zero point is one of
my favorite books of all time and one of
the most important books in considering
all of the possibilities of the UFO
mystery that some of these UFOs may
actually be
man-made he ended his talk with a slide
of a black disc zipping off an outer
space and he ended it with these words
we now have the technology to take ET
home in this exclusive interview we
retrace Nick's Sensational journey in
the hunt for zero point from Skunk Works
to Nazi Germany which had its own
reported anti-gravity programs under SS
officer Hans commer programs that were
scavenged for their most valuable
technology by the Americans and the
Russians at the end of World War II
there may have been stuff going on in
World War II that we just don't know
about to this day and along the way cook
Chronicles the mly crew of Forgotten
inventors and academic mics who reported
anti-gravitational effects Victor
shurger Thomas Townsen brown john
Hutchinson Eugene Petna and many others
cook even interviewed ning Lee the
mysterious Chinese American physicist
who was awarded a deod grant for her
anomalous anti-gravity research results
at University of Alabama Huntsville and
then I didn't know sort of how soon
after that it was that she so went off
grid certainly probably about within
within a year but she just disappeared
and no one knew what an happen to and if
that's not crazy enough cook and I also
explore aerospace's longstanding
interest in Mind Over Matter effects or
the fringy field of parapsychology is
there a through line with Aerospace and
like this interest in mind over matter
these companies look at anything they
can that can confer possible Advantage
so without further Ado sit back relax
and prepare to have your brain
absolutely broken by today's British
Alchemist Nick
[Music]
cook I'm here with the author of one of
my favorite books of all time uh Nick
cook we're here to talk about his book
The Hunt for zero point I chose as our
Background by the way um an Avo car in
1961 in an naso wind tunnel and I know
the AO car kind of nominally at least
went nowhere but I did find it to be
kind of an iconic interesting photo yeah
it looks an awful lot sort of sexier
there than actually the poor thing
turned out to be it really was a bit of
a a dog of a machine but we we can talk
about that yeah yeah well let's get into
it so I I want to get into I think in
some ways your
autobiographical story when it comes to
this journey is is really important for
people to understand because you don't
seem like one of these UFO nut cooks or
or even you know particularly into very
out there stuff kind of a priori and so
you were an aviation journalist at James
defense Weekly right and then what got
you into aviation in the first
place uh that's a really good question
so I did um a completely unrelated
degree at University which was Arabic
and Islamic Studies but then I got to
the end of University and I realized
that the thing I was really interested
in was Aerospace and Engineering but I
didn't want to go and do another three
years of engineering Plus wasn't
particularly great at maths it was my
dad actually who was an engineer who
said to me why don't you write about it
why don't you write about Aerospace that
had never occurred to me until that
moment but actually when he said that a
sort of light bulb went on and I knew
that that was what I was going to do so
let's talk about uh your introduction
into aerospace's inquiries into
anti-gravity because I find that story
very interesting there was an article
that showed up on your desk is that
right yeah there was an article that
showed up on my desk I mean people would
send stuff to us at Jan's we had a
central mail opening facility so I never
knew who sent it to me it was but it
might have been anonymously sent and I
was about to throw it in the trash um
when I started to sort of read it and
there were these company names that I
recognized you know was still familiar
like conve General Dynamics uh loed Le
and it said you know there's real
activity going on lots of you know
scientists are involved and you know we
anticipate a breakthrough by you know
the early 1960s you know by which time
we're all going to be flying around like
the jeton and and there's a George
Trimble who's the VP of Martin
Corporation pre- loocking merger their
group called raas which is studying
anti-gravity at the time says this could
be done in about the amount of time it
took to build the first atom bomb and so
you get this sort of like you know it's
a round the bend feel correct and and in
my mind's eye I had an image of the bomb
program as a kind of progenitor for this
you know this was the kind of time
scales probably the kind of money that
was being going to be thrown at this and
the architecture that would be employed
except that it was seemed it was all of
course being talken about talked about
openly then and I I filed it away
intrigued but you know I've got real
stuff to be getting on with right and
until I ran into a locked PR exec I knew
pretty well and I said I'd like to
interview George Trimble because it just
sounded intriguing and and I I think I'd
found out that Trimble was still alive
or maybe I'd asked this person to find
out if Trimble was still alive anyway
the answer came back that Trimble didn't
want to speak to me and he was really
quite spooked at the idea of speaking to
me and I was politely sort of invited to
drop this interest but he seemed open to
initially speaking to you and then he
goes back and he says uh you know I
don't I don't know who this man is but I
won't speak to him now or ever and I
suggest you drop it you know something
like that yeah yeah yeah and so what
caused this sort of 180 flip what caused
the 180 flip I have you know I have no
idea um like I say it it it could have
been oh my God there's something really
secret there that I I George Trimble you
know inadvertently stumbled you know I
sort of rumbled over um because I was
once told never to talk about it uh or
it could have been the praic version you
know which is it's just this is not
something we talk about in polite
company in the 1990s anymore okay so the
door gets shut in your face and of
course as a journalist that makes you
more interested yeah it is that moment
when you go okay well if I wasn't
interested before I am now yeah and then
what what did you encounter next in your
anti-gravity Journey well what I did was
I did that thing that you and how had
that very interesting discussion with uh
Eric Weinstein about which was the
physics piece uhhuh it would only be if
it were the case that in fact we have
mastered
anti-gravity and they're being built by
Aerospace corporations then new physics
would have to be involved I I did look
at the the the the piece that Eric
Weinstein referenced which was all a
sort of physics that was going on at the
time um and he did that brilliantly my
understanding is that there were really
twin Losi activity Babson contacted
Lewis Whitten who was coming out of
John's Hopkins and then oddly a the
similarly named individual named banson
reaches out to Bryce dwit and asks
whether he will found an Institute at
the University of North Carolina Chapel
Hill right and then there's a famous
gravity conference at the University of
North Carolina Chapel Hill that sort of
kicks a lot of this off it's a
tremendous flurry of activity at a time
when anti-gravity was trying to break
into respectability I I couldn't get the
trail that that far but I realized that
there was there was a you know big
physics Trail to this story um but I
decided that I was going to pursue it
sort of chronologically and of course
when you're talking about anti-gravity
you're talking about something that is a
UFO that looks probably like a flying
sorcerer so I start to do my due
diligence which is I look at the first
sightings of this kind of shape
the Tic Tac of today was the Flying
butane tank totally of the 1950s and you
can find Declassified Air Force OSI
reports that are publicly searchable
right now that talk about these like
flying white butane tanks
[Music]
right
d in
1947 General Nathan Twining he's the
head of the air material command
responsible for all aircraft development
in the Air Force writes a famous memo
called the Twining memo UFO nuts love to
talk about this memo because he says
UFOs are not Visionary or fictitious I
think the coolest update on the Twining
memo comes from your book because you
notice some things in the postcript of
the memo that are perhaps even more
intriguing than just top Air Force brass
conceding the reality of UFOs yeah uh in
the memo Twining States in his
considered opinion quotes that the rash
of UFO sightings in America during the
summer of 1947 the first real wave as it
turned out had been something real and
not Visionary or fictitious he continued
there are objects approximating the
shape of a dis of such appreciable size
as to appear to be as large as a
man-made aircraft these discs exhibited
a number of common characteristics
amongst them a metallic or light
reflecting surface and absence of any
jet Trail and no propulsion sound and he
he talks about some observables of UFOs
in in his day you know extreme rates of
climb maneuverability no Vapor Trails
which would imply a novel form of
propulsion and then he says in the
postcript it is within our present
knowledge to build these sorts of crafts
and then with a range that you know I
think the U2 spy plane hadn't even come
out yet it was like you know seven years
or something in the future it would come
out and on on its best day I think a
You2 couldn't meet the range of of the
aircraft that he described at subsonic
speed it's basically
saying they're real but we don't know
how they're flying so coming out of
World War II there may have been stuff
going on in World War II that we just
don't know about to this
[Music]
day that's a perfect segue cuz from 42
to 45 you have Allied and axis fighter
pilots seeing these sort of seemingly
controlled ball lightning things they
call them the the the Foo Fighters after
like the Smoky Stover uh comic strip and
then in 46 you also have Swedish ghost
rockets and I think it was you know so
on the radar of top military personnel
in the US that Eisenhower actually sends
General James dittle to go out and
investigate these sort of seemingly it
looks like modified versions of V2
rockets that are flying at you know
speeds and with propulsion that we could
you know never dream of and so you then
go into kind of investigate this kind of
European you know possible
origination of you know these these
saucers yeah um there are lots of
references to food Fighters and
Technologies which are really Advanced
you know like there was one I seem to
remember called the German name was vind
hun so uh wind dog it was for sniffing
the air
streams behind left behind bombers in
the trail of bombers so that you could
follow a bomber stream from detection of
its of their exhaust Trail and then as I
say I think in the hunt there are a
bunch of technologies that you could
package together that could go into a
foo fighter but you know even doing that
today would be challenging I mean really
challenging actually but yet you still
have the sightings evidence from Allied
Pilots you know a lot saying that they
saw stuff so how do you square that
Circle well you can't but you find a lot
of interesting circumstantial evidence
around the existence possibly of a
secret weapons program under SS officer
Hans commer called scota works yeah I I
don't even think that's circumstantial I
think there there's very good evidence
to show that his what was called the cam
he called the camab which was the uh
ca's staff it was basically a special
projects office run by SS General Hans
camer um in the latter part of the war
for secret projects I mean breakthrough
technology the V2 was put under his
control I think until the hunt you know
very little was known about him so I
thought that that was a trail worth
following and it took me to some quite
interesting
[Music]
places Hans commer was a high-ranking
Nazi SS officer who oversaw the
construction of several concentration
camps including the notorious owitz
berkana he was deeply committed to Nazi
ideology and became one of Hitler's most
trusted officers in the last years of
the third re that is until commer turned
on
Hitler by 1945 commer who was already in
charge of the naz's most deadly Suite of
weapons had a secret plan to assassinate
the furer Ker's colleague and fellow
Nazi Albert Spear once said of him I
discovered him to be a cold ruthless
schemer a Fanatic in pursuit of a goal
and as carefully calculating as he was
unscrupulous as cook writes commer and
his staff presided over the blackest of
black Nazi secret weapons projects in
modern Czechoslovakia and Poland the
rumors around Ker's work take the
concept of werv vafa or Wonder Weapons
to the next level
there are sort of six different accounts
of his death you know which is always
suspicion you're right there was quite a
bit of evidence that CA had been in
negotiations with the Ally the Western
allies before uh the end of the war and
of course you know the deal was the
obvious one which is you get all my
files um on all the technologies that
I'd be in charge of um and you let me
live commer oversaw V weapons Rockets
remote control aircraft atomic energy
jet propulsion and other similar
subjects and there are many who believe
that Flying Saucer shaped craft were a
part of his mandate as well commer
recruited Rudolph Shriver a German
technician who claims to have worked on
a disc-shaped craft in Prague that made
its first test flight in February of
1945 climbing to 40,000 ft in 3 minutes
commer also recruited Victor schauberger
shalberg was a naturalist in every sense
Not only was he a Forester but he held
true to the maximum that science should
comprehend and copy nature his ideas
resemble what we now call free energy or
zero point energy energy taken from the
vacuum or ether there's enough energy in
the volume of a coffee cup to evaporate
all the world's oceans if you could get
it all of it shurger had his own
diagrams and designs for a flying saucer
with what became known as an impeller
engine you know there are some sort of
pretty arcane stories about things that
shabber had built that purportedly took
off that um you know he was running air
through at very high rotation speeds he
was running water through at very high
rotation speeds after leaving his home
in Austria abruptly in 1942 the year
commer secret projects began shabber
wrote to his son that he was in yonet in
Czechoslovakia and that what I am doing
is secret I was able to go and visit the
shurer family and they opened up their
files the family files and in particular
they show me Victor's diary from that
time all the places he's going to on a
trail he says he can't talk about are
all places which I'd already mapped on
the in the camer Kingdom these secret
Laboratories and outposts and
underground facilities that CA had built
to develop his special Weaponry finally
alongside them you had the famed Richard
ma who also had designs for a flying
saucer Maita worked in high voltage
physics as further evidence that Hans
kmer was working on building real flying
saucers John Warner IV has a story he
likes to tell about his grandfather Paul
melon one of the founders of the CIA
melan was in Czechoslovakia on a top
secret trip at the end of World War II
along with his colleague who went on to
become the third director of the CIA
Alan Dulles and this is what he told his
grandson son and my grandfather said
look you know we we were in a facility a
hanger and we saw you know a German
flying disc and I said you know oh is
that the one that was cobbled together
with six BMW jet engines and he laughed
and he said
no maybe the craziest rumor around Shota
works is this idea of the glocka this
sort of bell that at the time it was
rumored to have it sort of torsion Fe
and created kind of time dilation
effects on the inside of the bell and
you'd put a human in there and you know
be kind of as if time travel because
time would slow on the inside it would
run at a normal Pace on the outside
you'd walk out you'd be a thousand years
in the future um and you had reportedly
uh you know Ernest growz who's the head
of the SS medical division under which
Joseph mango worked and a guy named
Walter gerlock who's you know a
prominent German physicist who explored
gravity a bit before uh you know working
maybe on this this sort of exotic crazy
project do you have any reason to
believe that this
existed well yeah I have to hold my
hands up and say that um the the Bell or
the the blocker story wasn't really my
story you know I have to hand and I do
hand in the book credit for that to a
guy called e vosi who was is a
Polish uh writer story in writes about
German secret weapon stuff I get this
connection with e pikovski who tells me
all about the Bell story which is you
know it's purportedly about this device
that produces some kind of weird time
delation effect and anti-gravitational
effect and I pay this very atmospheric
visit with eagle to uh the site where
supposedly it was installed which was
deep in a mine in a place called
valenberg uh in what is now in Poland
and there of course there was this thing
that sort of hexagonal thing that he
said was evidence of a test rig for some
kind of you know disc shaped
[Music]
craft when you go on the ground you can
see that this was a very secret
installation of some kind you can still
see evidence of very um thit cabling
lots of electricity into this place so
you know what else could it have been um
I mean over time I've have come to
conclude that it was probably a one of
several sides that the Germans the SS in
particular were using to look into uh
nuclear weapon nuclear technology um
beyond the Heisenberg program which was
the one that everyone knows stopped in I
think it was 42 or 43 one of your
sources later in the Hun for zero point
does say that you know there's some sort
of it was called Kronos or something was
he refer ing to Deer or was it another
program no no I I I think it I think it
was vitovsky himself who said that it
was called
Kronos and of course that is the Greek
for what the Greek god Kronos who ruled
over time um and uh in a sense over
reality as well so you know if that was
its name it was it could have been aply
named
let's go back to that Michael gladich
article the G engines are coming in it
he talks about G particles or gravity
particles these gravitons would
theoretically mediate the force of
gravity much like photons mediate
electromagnetism glad cites Stanley
deser and Richard arnt at Princeton as
being actively involved in this research
the pair wrote a paper about these
theoretical gravitons in their 1954
winning essay for the Gravity Research
Foundation yes there was was a gravity
essay contest involving the top
theoretical physicists in the world at
the time this shows just how bizarrely
invogue the study of gravity was in the
' 50s as mathematician Lewis witton
would say anti-gravity was in the wind
this could mean one of two things number
one that it was ubiquitous it was in the
zeist and sort of everywhere but the
second possible meaning is that maybe it
was still everywhere but it was
scattered and OB fiscated and hard to
detect at the the same time in the wind
is a famous term used by spies and
intelligence when they go off- Grid in
fact there's a 1971 Australian
intelligence memo cited by David grush
and others that points to this deep yet
hidden American interest in anti-gravity
in the '
50s it was written by Harry Turner the
head of the Australian joint
intelligence organization's nuclear
division The Joint intelligence
organization jio was basically austral
CIA the Aussies had nuclear testing
facilities run by Turner that had
experienced some bizarre UFO encounters
and so they were starting to believe
that American inquiries into UFOs and
anti-gravity were far deeper than the
public facing American programs like
Operation Blue Book that were
systematically downplaying and
marginalizing the topic Project Blue
Book was the best they could do at the
time because they felt they had a real
project going on that was secret okay is
that that true and the air F did oh I
didn't know
that this 1971 Australian intelligence
memo makes some bombshell claims it
lists all of the same top aerospace
companies in gad's article that cook
found as being actively involved in
Gravity Research margan Corporation Lear
Conair Bell but it also lists top
physicists you have all heard of even
Robert J Oppenheimer as being actively
and deeply involved in anti-gravity
research finally it lists six top
academic institutions as being the
center of gravity research in the US
Princeton Institute for advanced study
and University of North Carolina Chapel
Hill all doing Gravity Research at the
behest of the cia's office of scientific
[Music]
intelligence agu bonson was the patron
of the University of North Carolina
Chapel Hills anti-gravity Outpost called
The Institute for field physics he was
an industrialist obsessed with
anti-gravity and in 1957 he held the
Chapel Hill conference to discuss
gravity in the einsteinian Paradigm
kicking off an era from 1957 to 1970 in
which general relativity moved from a
novel curiosity to the centerpiece of
modern
physics this era is now known as the
Golden Age of relativity in this
conference bonson convenes many of the
top physicists in the world John Wheeler
Richard Fineman and Freeman Dyson and
the whole conference was sponsored by
Wright Airfield the center of all UFO
rumors who had its own theoretical
physics anti-gravity division under
Syracuse PhD Josh Goldberg Lewis Whitten
was at the Chapel Hill conference too
and where was Lewis Wht working on
gravity at none other than George
trimble's special research division at
Martin corpor ation the research
institute for advanced study he also was
studying anti-gravity for right Airfield
the reason there was a laboratory at
wrightfield was to find out what we were
doing and to help us do it and I got a
contract from rightfield to do it to do
gravity which I did very
happily so with all of the money and
resources funneling into Gravity
Research in the 50s and all of the time
that's elaps since are we really
supposed to believe that we've made no
progress on the topic maybe who knows
but to frame things slightly
differently if we have made any progress
on anti-gravity but that progress got
turned into special access programs or
was militarized it might look like we
haven't made any progress you'd never be
able to tell the difference maybe a hint
lies with agnu bonson of The Institute
of field physics the anti-gravity
obsessed Patron wrote a science fiction
book before his timely death in a plane
crash it was called the stars are too
high and it involves a team of Rogue
Nazi scientists who were captured and
moved to America after the war
culminating in a collaboration to build
man-made flying saucers utilizing
anti-gravity the makers of these saucers
hatch up a plan to fake an alien
invasion in order to quell tensions
between the Russians and the United
States
[Music]
and then I go to as you say I go to town
Zen Brown who was as you've ay uh
covered in a previous film an inventor
he had some connection to
Loy in one of my recent videos the man
who built UFOs for the CIA we cover the
life of the most interesting man you've
probably never heard of Thomas Townsen
Brown Brown was a mid-century engineer
and inventor whose life is shrouded in
mystery and rif with controversy some
people believe he made vital discoveries
in the world of anti-gravity While
others think he was an amateur quack one
piece of blowback I got after making
that documentary was the proposition
that Brown's work could have made it
into the B2 stealth bomber for a while I
I looked at whether the B2 uh bomber
might have employed some kind of towns
and brown type technique to make it a
little stealthier make it a little less
uh prone to drag those are both
byproducts of electrostatics you charge
something electrostatically and you
reduce its radar signature that's useful
for a stealth bomber uh you charge it
electrostatically and you might reduce
its drag there were Papers written uh by
the Aerospace industry on that you know
in the early 1960s by northr I seem to
remember papers that were pulled that
you had a sorus at an anonymous Source
out here that noticed that they were
pulled from the aia's records as as far
as I know they at that time they were as
I say in my video I can't definitively
say that Brown's work made it into the
B2 but I'll just lay out the facts and
you
decide towns and brown met with Edward
Teller in 1965 who by many accounts
including this 1971 Australian
intelligence memo was working on
anti-gravity research since the ' 50s at
his Berkeley home teller is shown a demo
by Brown of his fan precipitator this
freaks teller out so much that he turns
to his wife and says I don't know how
this works Townsen Brown's daughter
Linda who is still alive was present at
that meeting and confirmed this account
and he looks at it and finally he said I
don't understand how it works a
prominent Aerospace investor and lawyer
named Floyd odam gets tipped off about
teller's astonishment and decides to
become the sole investor in Brown's
Santa Monica based company guidance
Technologies odam also happens to be a
majority owner of northr before its
merger with grummet while at guidance
Technologies Brown continues his
anti-gravity work on electrostatics
while conducting this work he's meeting
with Bill leer former Air Force Chief of
Staff Curtis lame the Rand Corporation
and other Titans of Aerospace in the
fall of 1967 Brown shuts the company
down with no explanation saying he got
no results but in the winter of 1968
just 3 months after Brown shuts down
guidance Technologies Northrup who has
the same investor as brown Floyd odam
happens to publish a paper on Electro
aerodynamics and electrogravitics and
its implications for Aviation
electrogravitics is only used to
describe one thing at the time and it's
hound and Brown's work did Brown shut
down guidance Technologies just to have
his IP cover Bly transferred to northrip
Grumman his sole Investor's biggest
interest well two decades later when
northrup's B2 stealth bomber is revealed
to the world Aviation weekly says it
used an electrokinetic effect in its
wings producing a Byfield Brown effect
the B2 surfs its own electrostatic wave
the negative Cloud chasing the positive
wing and not to mention Brown's wife
Josephine received checks from odam for
the rest of her life Mr odam K forc them
to ass a contract with my dad that
was open ended it was something like
2500 a month after daddy died it was
what kept my mother going 2500 wow never
and I had to think I had to think oh L
for that but there are other
conventional prominent journalists who
believe that Brown's work made it into
the B2 stealth bomber I do sign in the
book Bill Gunston who was another James
editor and Bill Gunston was kind of like
the doen of Aerospace just a very dogged
data guy and he comes up with this story
saying that the
b2s performance data does not add up
yeah you know it given the power of its
engines it shouldn't be able to take off
so what's going on and you I thought you
know a lot of us thought well for you to
say that bill yeah that's weird that's
odd that's and he adds this kind of
epithet like well you know I think I'm
going to draw the line under this story
cuz I don't want to end up in the Tower
of London that's right AKA you know a a
deep dark prison yeah that once was and
um he says I've long been familiar with
the rudiments of towns and Brown's work
but I don't want to reside in the Tower
of London so I will refrain from
speaking about leading edges of millions
of volts positive followed by trailing
edges of Millions the volts negative
which is a description of course of
towns and Brown's kind of capacitor
[Music]
work some even think that B2 was named
after Byfield Brown B2 two B's Byfield
Brown so what do you think and why is
this even important if it were true
because if Brown's work made it into the
B2 then it means his work touched
reality that means some of his other
more exotic anti-gravity experiments
which also involved many credible
Witnesses all of whom I mention in my
documentary may have been valid too it
at least makes that more probable and
quickly dispels the popular image of
towns and brown that he was an amateur
quack who never got
[Music]
anywhere I I always liked your book
because it was kind of a um it was very
skeptical it was it was just hard-headed
and it was so you had all this epistemic
like you were a real journalist in a
world of quacky woo woo you know looking
for meaning types of people and so I go
I go in you know reading the book and
I'm like you know to the shatkin book
and I'm like you know is is there
anything here and honestly the stuff
that made
me higher conviction in brown it's not
only these sort of threads we've pieced
together in Aerospace but it's like the
way he communicated with his family
about a lot of this stuff where it's
like I don't think he's scoping them you
know that that just fascinated me and it
it felt like it almost beget an expanded
worldview I mean what is what is
interesting about Brown you know is his
involvement supposedly in the
Philadelphia Experiment you know about a
disappearing warship and time travel and
all of that and you think where did that
come from and and
why the Philadelphia Experiment was a
long rumored supposed Navy experiment in
1943 that turned the USS Eldridge
invisible and teleported it from
Philadelphia to norfol Virginia it
spawned a book a movie and all sorts of
crazy time travel and teleportation
mythology I think the lore around this
experiment is mostly total quackery and
a bit insane and the experiment likely
just involved a high voltage envelope
created around the ship in order to
render it undetectable scrambling its
magnetic signature to avoid underwater
mines Torpedoes and radar that account
is also backed up by Edward dudon a Navy
electrician that corresponded with
legendary French UFO researcher jacqu
fet in the 9s but Townsen Brown likely
was involved in the experiment in fact
he was stationed at norfol Virginia at
the time he also told his friend Josh
Reynolds late in life that the
Philadelphia Experiment did happen its
events were just greatly exaggerated
this also explains the 1943 FBI file on
Brown saying that he knew more about
radar than anyone in the Navy at the
time as we all know the best kind of
disinformation always has a little bit
of Truth seated in there somewhere so
what Earth was going on there you know
there you there could have been a
breakthrough then there there could have
been yeah um people say Secrets don't
keep that long well you know I've
already talked about a couple I know of
that kept for 35 to 40 years um the
answer is they do keep for a long time
they can do and particularly when you
put in special measures you know the
disinfo stuff around
[Music]
them from there I went to some white
World lab test experiments which were
going on in NASA at the time NASA had
exhibited weirdly an interest in
anti-gravity in the sort of mid 1990s
following reports that a guy he was a
Russian called yevi pod ketov who' been
working out of the University of Tamp in
Finland had noticed a weight loss effect
in objects suspended above very rapidly
rotating
superconductors so NASA wanted to
replicate that and to the best of my
knowledge they were never able
to and from there
it just kind of snowballed yeah yeah the
final thread here is this woman named
ning Lee who is in Alabama uh and she's
working on anti-gravity experiment ments
and you actually interviewed her right
she's been brought up actually in the
context of she brought up by by Joe
Rogan and some other podcasters very
recently because she has this bizarre
disappearance have you heard about that
there's a story about this Chinese
scientist that was working on
anti-gravity and then vanished that's
very
controversial ning Lee was a Chinese
American physicist who's experiencing a
Resurgence of interest in the last few
years Lee was born in China in 1943 and
at the age of 40 in 1983 she moved to
the Aerospace Mecca Huntsville Alabama
joining the University of Huntsville
Alabama's physics department along with
her colleague Douglas tour Lee developed
a theory of gravity manipulation
involving the alignment of the rotation
of ions into a lattice called a Bose
Einstein condensate that she thought
could counteract gravity nobody found
any mistake in my papers then she tested
it suspending test Mass above a spinning
superconductor and according to her saw
some pretty Paradigm shifting results
publishing that the various masses she
tested would lose between. 5% and 2.1%
of their weight across multiple
trials this is an absolutely insane
claim achieving weight loss or any
gravity reduction on a suspended object
through the simple input of alternating
current electricity would break our
conventional understanding of physics it
would unify the field finally
reconciling electromagnetism and gravity
something Einstein could never do but
people don't believe it I
know until I got an experimental
result after claiming to achieve these
groundbreaking results ning Lee then
makes an interesting move she leaves
University of Huntsville Alabama to
start her own company AC gravity LLC in
fact Lee's physics chair at Huntsville
Larry SMY was so convinced by the
groundbreaking experimental results Lee
had shown that he also left the
University of Huntsville to join Lee at
her company when I heard this story at
rang a bell I had remembered that name
Larry SMY where had I seen it well he's
the same guy on NASA patents filed in
2004 out of the Marshall space flight
center the patent is for a novel
barrel-shaped asymmetric capacitor a
again capacitors are the core instrument
in towns and& Browns experiments the
fact that SMY was on the patent got me
thinking that maybe there's a possible
lineage between ning Lee and Townsen
Brown after Lee forms her company with
SMY AC gravity LLC they immediately win
a DOD contract Lee gets a security
clearance and she seems to go silent for
20 years at the time of her winning that
contract her son George noted a stark
change in Lee's cheery demeanor and an
increased secretiveness and somberness
around the house in 2008 Lee was
approached at her home by the CCP to
continue her work in China she refused
causing them to retaliate by Banning her
from the country even to attend her own
mother's funeral if this part of the
story is true Lee is an absolute
American
Patriot in 2014 Lee was tragically hit
by a car the shock of which gave her
husband who was walking with her a
lethal heart attack and it gave Lee
brain impairment until her recent death
in
2021 what happened to ning
Lee uh yeah I I admit her and I did sit
down I interviewed her and this was at a
conference in 2003 just outside of
Washington DC uh run by the overse by
the MIT Corporation and it was looking
at I think high frequency gravitational
waves and um you know she she was an
interesting character because she had
been involved in some of those NASA uh
experiments I mentioned earlier about um
rotating superconductors and weight loss
experiments and um she she shared one of
the sessions I talked to her afterwards
about it all she had this view that this
was science and technology that should
be for the people it should be you know
very um uh philanthropic in its you know
nature and outcomes and then I don't
know s how soon after that it was that
she s went off grid certainly probably
about within within a year but she just
disappeared and no one knew what
happened to her there there are rumors
of this sort of tech being possibly of
dual use there's a quote from Paul
shatkins book actually that Brown's work
could turn a doer thermonuclear bomb
into a child's firecracker sort of like
this death ray that could end the world
which would obviously be you know you'd
have to be very conscious about how you
release something like that probably
never want to release something like
that at least in our present State of
Consciousness is Humanity so indeed yeah
yeah um no uh yeah definitely a deal use
aspect to it I'm sure um so uh yeah we
have to slightly get ourselves up to the
point where we responsible enough to use
it
[Music]
responsibly coming kind of later into
the book who is Boyd Bushman okay so uh
when I finished German investig bit uh I
came back to the US again and was
introduced there a locky Martin to a guy
called Boyd Bushman dror Boyd Bushman
who was a senior scientist at Loy Mar
Fort Worth and um I sit down and
interview Boyd for a documentary I was
making at the time called bondor secret
and he's the first person in the
Aerospace industry who talks to me about
you know anti-gravity and um it's not
crazy you know and he even gives me some
pointers and says you know you should go
and check this out and go and check that
out um and so I did uh one of the
pointers he he gave me was to a guy
called John lerson who was Canadian
inventor in working out of Vancouver who
apparently had been funded whose
anti-gravitational experiments have been
funded by the dod um in fact by um the
guy who headed that up was quite well
moan in s parapsychological circles uh
Colonel John Alexander and it involved a
lot of kind of crazy equipment which
John had assembled and put together in
one place which I witnessed when I went
over to his home it was stuff full of
old oscilloscopes and you know bandag
graph generators go those were I then
spoke to John Alexander about it who
said unfortunately when I set up all the
equipment under laboratory conditions
none of it worked couldn't replicate
anything but off camera um and out of
the laboratory yeah people saw stuff fly
across the room and the big question for
John and the team
was was this the equipment that was
doing it or was it somehow John huton
doing it with his mind and John always
says it's the equipment but you know
there are others who became relatively
convinced that there was
some psychokinetic kind of influence on
it all
[Music]
Ben Rich was a talented engineer
originally hired as a thermody
dynamicist for locked Martin before
moving over to its most secretive
aircraft and weaponry division Skunk
Works in 1975 he took over Skunk Works
from the legendary Kelly Johnson and
would go on to play a vital role in the
development of American stealth plans
like the
f117 he did this by resuscitating the
work of an obscure Russian mathematician
in the' 60s named uev who developed
equations for predicting the reflection
of electromagnetic waves sounds like a
conventionally successful career in
Aerospace right well at a UCLA speech in
the 9s towards the end of his life Ben
Rich the former director of skunkworks
made some very strange comments alluding
to locki skunkworks having the
technology to quote unquote take ET home
and travel across various star systems
when asked how exactly that would work
this is what he said he said well let me
ask you a question how does ESP work and
it just threw me back I think oh my God
I wasn't expecting a question I was
expecting him to just say something and
he said I said I don't know all points
and space and time are connected that's
how it works turned around walked away
later Ben Rich apparently said this on
his deathbed to John Andrews of tester's
Motor Corporation we already have the
means to travel among the s but these
Technologies are locked up in Black
projects and it would take an act of God
to ever get them out to benefit
Humanity what did Rich mean and why did
Rich's successor skunkworks director
Robert Weiss get involved in Tom Dong's
public facing UFO organization to the
Stars Academy these are all good
questions very worthy of followup you
know I inter I interviewed benri a
couple of times yeah he talked in
Parables he talked in analogies you know
when we were talking about Stealth and
he said there was a time when stealth
was deemed to be so challenging uh you
know it wasn't an easy thing at all to
get an algorithm basically a radar
baffling algorithm to
fly um he said we considered actually
burying the whole thing I mean before we
even got started and burying it so that
no one else got the idea it was a little
bit like bomb physics you know at the
moment when um Einstein wrote that
letter to Roosevelt saying that a bomb
is possible you then started to get all
or a lot of traces of what then had been
open discussion about um the atom
splitting the atom all of that began to
disappear and it was it was for a while
contemplated by the dod the few who knew
about stuff and the Skunk Works they
should do the same thing this thing was
so challenging that they wouldn't go
ahead with it they'd do something else
and meanwhile they'd erase all traits of
you know talk about radar baffling
algorithms and stuff there was even a
rift right between Kelly Johnson Ben
Rich's predecessor and Ben Rich Ben Rich
was very Pro stealth but Kelly Johnson
was kind of anti- Stealth at the end of
his career right I believe that to be
the case I mean I I'm
yeah's book well there yes I'm pretty
sure that was the case I mean there were
lots of sort of there were lots of
different camps uh for and against
stealth for sure um but in you know and
then as Ben rich said to me so in effect
what we would have done he said we would
have you know we would have boxed this
thing up we would have put a kind of
date stamp on not to be opened um until
you know 2050 or whatever and we would
have slid it into a warehouse that
looked a metaphorical Warehouse that
would have looked or resembled that
which you see at the end of Raiders of
the Lost AR with the
AR I have no idea what he meant by that
um so I sort of rather sort of ducked
ducked away from it yeah well then you
have this bizarre Resurgence of kind of
Skunk Works uh kind of public facing
propaganda around UFOs or anti-gravity
in the form of to the Stars Academy the
question I've always had is like you
know is is there Rob Weiss got very
interested he kind of helped Tom dong
actually write a couple of books secret
machines and then this other one with
Peter lenda and um he gets interested in
the whole topic when Tom dong and Peter
lenda start talking about Celestial
Ascent practices and cabala and so is
there is there anything there like is
there is there through is there through
line with Aerospace and like this
interest in mind over matter I mean
James McDonald is a famous Patron
obviously was very interested in
parapsychology as well at McDonald
Douglas they had their own Institute
he's very close with Bob JN who's
running the par Lab at Princeton so is
there is there is there like a reality
to this you know this interest of
Aerospace and
Consciousness well I'm very aware of the
McDonald one that you mentioned um and
you know there are Declassified papers
to show
McDonald uh instructing his company or
or members of his you know officials
within his company to go study UFOs to
see what you can learn from them the
idea being you transpose that knowledge
into Aerospace programs
presumably um I'm not I'm not aware of
it at the Skunk Works I'm not aware of
it at anywhere else the thing that I am
aware of is that these companies look at
anything they can that can confer
possible Advantage um whatever that is
and I mean the other thing that
impressed itself upon me and has always
impressed itself upon me is how much
further the Aerospace and defense
industry is prepared to go in terms of
looking at what you might call heretical
science than science itself is and then
you know you only have to go to
something like remote viewing the
psychic spying program to know that
agencies like the
CIA definitely saw advantage in
heretical science I mean there's nothing
scientific uh uh to explain remote
viewing but still they went ahead and
did it anyway and funded it for 18 years
or something yeah you told me once that
benr would refer to UFOs as unfunded
opportunities well as we've already
discussed you know these these
organizations aren't past misleading you
I mean and why not I mean I get it I
don't I'm not grieved by the fact that
I'm playing a game with them or at least
you know when I was doing this I was
playing a game with them I sort of I
knew that it's the it's a very fine line
it's a double-edged sword you cannot be
seen to be misleading the Press
um or or or even more than that don't
get caught if you do do it because
that's self-limiting you know after a
while people then begin to question you
know you the ethics of your company you
know what you're up to Etc so whatever
game is being played is incredibly
subtle I me I think Ben
Rich was subtle I mean he he made some
very enigmatic statements about these
things and particularly you know where
they classified aircraft buted up
against the whole UFO
law um the unfunded opportunity thing
I mean you can take that at face value
which is that that he really did see
um funding opportunities in in
everything or in a lot and you know part
of the CH the charter of the Skunk Works
was uh to to to to push technology in
addition to responding to the pull of
technology in other words requirements
pulls from you know the dod or or
whoever um so you know they were always
coming up with concepts for you know
interesting
weird flying
craft there was this mythical aircraft
out there called Aurora and Aurora was
supposed to be a replacement for the
SR71
Blackbird which remains to this day I
think the fastest uh jet power airplane
ever built even though it retired in
1990 and Bill again he became convinced
that there was that this aircraft
existed bill was a kind of Sherlock
Holmes of um our world he would piece
together clues that the black World left
in public or hadn't even intended to
leave in public and would follow these
Clues and build them up and so between
us we went on this kind of hunt for
classified aircraft of which there were
a few in the ' 80s and '90s and so
that's sort of that was my grounding in
the world of sort of you know secret
stuff doesn't he he kind of um documents
an oil rig engineer right in the North
Sea uh drawing up a little sketch of the
Aurora right and then you have uh
unattributable Sonic booms
uh in the desert of California uh that
you know it's clearly not the space
shuttle it's not the
SR71 and so what's what's going on there
and then you had your own experience
right at at Skunk Works do you want to
talk about that yeah uh it's quite a
quite a bit to put together there uh so
um yes there were there were sightings
and there were soundings of this thing
um purportedly so the US Geological
Survey
had um detected through its seismic
sensors in California which are there to
obviously to monitor for earthquake
activity it had detected um booms Sonic
booms coming in from the Pacific heading
towards Area 51 in Nevada because that
you could the sensors you could the
sensors were positioned in such a way
that you could track the progress of you
know whatever seismic disturbance or
sonic disturbance there was and all of
these um
booms were tracking towards Area 51 in
Nevada um it wasn't the space shuttle
because the space shuttle wasn't flying
that day um other aircraft were deemed
uh not to be responsible for it so that
was kind of one pointer towards a secret
Hypersonic aircraft that was under test
um in at Area 51 in the late
1980s the oil rig sighting was
interesting um so a guy called Chris
Gibson who was working on an oil on an
oil rig in the North
Sea uh somewhere between the UK and
Germany I guess or Norway he looks up
and he sees this Dart likee Black Arrow
shaped thing um High uh escorted by what
he took to be I think it was three or
four f-111s which were uh swing Wing
American aircraft which were based in
the UK at the time and it was being
tanked in midair by uh a Boeing uh
tanker uh 135
tanker uh you know we used to get
reports like this all the time into
Janes you know and I would or Bill would
but uh what made this one credible was
that Chris Gibson was a royal Observer
core Observer m uh the Royal Observer
Corp was set up as a sort of Citizen
monitoring service for the impending War
second world war and is incredibly
disciplined in its approach to how it
observes things so Chris Gibson was no
ordinary plain spotter he was a royal
Observer cor PL Spotter and he drew a
sketch of this thing immediately
afterwards um and then I think he sat on
it for a while but then um eventually
sent it to Bill Sweetman and um Bill ran
then a story piecing together the
evidence for
Aurora uh with all the engineering
evidence and there was a lot of
engineering evidence too because there
was a program running at the time
through NASA and the dod called nasp
National Aerospace plane um the x30 set
up by sort of started by Reagan um with
lots of money behind it Reagan called it
the Orient Express in that this thing
was due to fly from the US to somewhere
in Singapore China Hong Kong wherever um
in 45
minutes and Bill became convinced that
nasp was actually a cover program for
Aurora in that it it sort of channeled
through the white world so through the
non-classified world a bunch of
Technologies like
um uh scramjets you know supersonic
combustion ramjets uh which is what
you'd need for a very
highflying um sort of super cruising uh
aircraft uh like Aurora um and also
things like um new materials I mean
materials uh in Hypersonic program are
key because you know
uh basic Metals had kind of reached the
end of their useful life as an airframe
um material you had to come up with new
new stuff like sort of pyrro ceramic and
Bill had tracked a lot of this through
nasp nasp then died went nowhere
supposedly um but it was felt at least
by Bill and I tend to agree with him
that there were spin-offs from that
program that went into a classified
program uh so while bill was off doing
all of this stuff um I
was uh interviewing various people about
yeah it was mainly day-to-day bread and
butter stuff and one of the series that
I wanted to run was about how the Skunk
Works which is the secret sort of
development High very high-tech arm of
Loy Martin how techniques from these
companies which were then beginning to
come out of the Shadows just after the
end of the Cold War after the fall of
the Berlin War um how they were spinning
out their hard earned business Acumen
and sort of how to build things quick
and cheaply um because of course they'
done that in the black
um uh into the overall Corporation so
there was a business story there um and
I went to talk to the head of the Skunk
Works guy then head of the Skunk Works I
think who took over after maybe a couple
after the famous Ben
Rich who I'd also interviewed um but uh
Jack Gordon U was then the head of the
skunk work so I went to interview him
and in a rare
dispensation they invited me to go and
interview him in the headquarters
building which is actually on the secret
part of the skunk work site normally
you'd interview somebody like that in
what's kind of like a the comp Skunk
Works had an airlock which was a
sanitized part of the of of the Skunk
Works across the railway tracks in
Palmdale where you would not encounter
anything secret but I was escorted onto
um the sort of secret part into the
headquarters building interviewed Jack
Gordon who said a few weird things like
I've I've been responsible for 15 real
flying uh aircraft in my time um but I
can sorry I can only talk about 12 of
them so there were these missing three
which you know we
chitch about for a while but I didn't
get very far and those aircraft have
never to my knowledge those have never
been revealed those those missing three
um and so then when the interview
finished I was being escorted back out
of the building again to the waiting car
that would take me back to the sanitized
part of Skunk Works um when I'm passing
this org chart and it's a chart that
depicts in graphical form aircraft from
the Skunk Works Beginnings which were in
19 some
1940s um through to the then uh modern
day which was as I say mid 90s so I
think um the aircraft that should have
been at the top of that list that was
acknowledged it was
either the the Prototype of the F22 the
yf-22 or it was Darkstar which was a
drone which got canceled um I think it
was darkar that's what I should have
seen instead what I saw above it was
something called Astra mhm and I I
turned to my escort and I said oh that's
interesting what's Astra and you've
never seen anyone bundled out of a
building so quickly as I was uh when I
uh when I mentioned that that plane
now a few post I I talk about that in
the hump serero Point as you say there
were a few postscripts to that which
came after I'd written the hunt um one
was that uh I ran into I just through
the job I ran into several bosses of the
Skunk Works after Jack Gordon at various
trade shows and what have you um one of
them I sat down and talked to about that
incident I said are you aware of you
know that Astra incident and what
happened to me and he said oh yeah he
said we're all aware of of that incident
um we we uh you know there's no one in
the skwor because who doesn't know what
happened that day I showing that there's
something there well maybe or so I go it
would be not memorable if there was
nothing there yeah because because on
the face of it it was a major [__] up I
mean it was a real goof and so I said
okay well let's talk about that I said
that's interesting so um so what's
happened to Astra then he said oh it
hasn't flown
yet I'm guessing this is could be a
decade after this incident happened so I
said okay I said are you expecting it to
fly anytime soon and he said yeah it'll
make an appearance sometime soon okay so
um and I go I said thanks okay and he
says something enigmatic like keep
watching the skies you know um anyway it
hasn't appeared to the best of my
knowledge it has not appeared either uh
a various drone programs have but I
don't think they really account for what
I saw or the description of it so I
think that's the end of the story and it
was only relatively recently I mean like
a few years back um I keep all my
Diaries so I'm flicking back through my
Diaries and I come across the day that I
went to the Skunk Works and I saw Astra
at the top of that chart and I look at
the date and it's April the 1 April
Fool's
Day and that makes me think okay okay I
think I understand what was happening
that day which was yeah I think so why
was I ushered into the headquarters
building when no one else was they knew
I was going to be writing a story about
this stuff it was all sanctioned it was
on the record um and conveniently as I
walk out of the building I see the org
chart which actually I'm amazed I missed
it on the way in maybe somebody put it
up while I was doing the interview
anyway I see the the org
chart and you could construe it this way
which is that I was meant to see it and
I was meant to write it and mhm you know
there is
no there are all kinds of tricks and
games and things you know that you know
wittingly unwittingly uh we we we get
drawn into you know as as journalists
and it wouldn't surprise me at all if
you know going back home and when I did
write about it and I did put a really
big caveat into that story when I wrote
about it saying I can't be sure that
something like Astra exists and I don't
even know what it is or what it could be
if it exists it could a stealth aircraft
it could be a reconnaissance aircraft it
could be a Hypersonic
plane but I think someone somewhere
wanted me to write about it interesting
and so you know those are the sorts of
kind of breadcrumbs that you get fed and
of course you've got to try and people
watch watchful eye out this was after
you had been digging up with Bill
Sweetman a lot of the kind of facts
around the Aurora and You' been on
record so so that would make we
published a a big story about Aurora in
Jam's defense week okay well then they
could have been trying to trick you
could have been because you know if
you're already on their radar why have
you in the you know next to the crown
jewels at the you know the center of
everything in Palmdale that's
interesting but the Aurora there's just
so I mean there's the evidence we just
discussed and then there's also you know
I think uh British Ministry of Defense
documents from the early 90s talking
about uh Hypersonic craft with kind of
Novel propulsion from the US there's a
1968 or sorry 198
budget where it shows up as a line item
for I think like2 billion or something
and Ben Rich has to kind of explain that
away yeah so do you I mean do you have
like a base case of you know are these
are these crafts real or or not or you
know obviously have to think
probabilistically but yeah I mean I as
you say there are very good pointers to
say it existed um not least of which
was it appeared a pretty firm conviction
by the UK mod that it existed and that
appearances of this
aircraft over the UK um there were
rumors it was based out of the UK for a
while at a a a remote Scottish Base
called RF
mahanes um so there was that side of
things I've interview I mean I had a
fascinating talk with an RAF pilot um
that I ran into once who said that he
had talked to Pilots who had encountered
the Aurora in the North Sea I mean over
the North Sea and
actually uh if that was the case a
tornado RAF tornado with swing Wings
actually looks an awful lot like an
F-111 um and despite the skills of Chris
Gibson he could have mistaken a tornado
swing-wing tornado for a swinging f111
so there I've had it you know on pretty
good authority from people all you know
qualified RAF military Pilots oh and
sworn to secrecy as well on that that
the thing was real um I and sort of but
just on a sort of gut level sort of
instinct thing I think the the the the
slam dunk for me was an interview I did
which I also talk about in the hunt for
zero point with a guy called General
George mullner who was the US Air
Force's head of research and development
until his retirement in
1998 I was lucky in that I got to
interview him on the day of his
retirement so I think it was in June or
July
1998 um and the the subject was black
programs so that was the official on the
record that's what we were going to talk
about uh discussion and I filmed it for
a documentary that I did uh at the time
called billion dollar Secret
and I bring up all of these sightings
you know with him of weird craft that
have been spotted in Colorado and Nevada
and I said look you know some of these
things are silent For Heaven's Sake you
know they hover over Witnesses they make
no noise and I'm talking about some
pretty grounded Witnesses here you know
there are ranchers who they know the
land they might not know too much about
aircraft but they have a good sense of
what's going on in their and over their
territory um and and I and so we talked
a little bit about that and he was kind
of joking about UFO sightings over you
know Utah Cal Colorado and Nevada and
then we got onto the subject of Aurora
and I said look um you know you're
retiring today what can you say about
the existence of this mythical Mark 5
Hypersonic aircraft and he said well
I'll leave you with a sort of bit of a
puzzle and he
said we had we had a problem in the late
80s early 90s which was um the SR71
Blackbird was
retiring uh we had a generation of um
analog satellites which was um coming to
an end and was being retired fa out of
service
deorbited um and there was a new
generation of these Keyhole satellites I
think it was kh1 Keyhole satellites
which were digital satellites which fed
realtime imagery um back to Earth he
said but we had a gap between the two we
had no SR71 we had no satellite coverage
said what would you
do
so well what I would do is pretty much
what um most people Bill Sweetman
included kind of think Aurora was which
was a
what they call a Deployable prototype so
you build a few to test the concept see
if it works you might send it on a few
missions you might even deploy it to
somewhere like the UK for a bit uh but
you know this thing is expensive it
drinks whatever fuel um it uses and uh
whilst it's it has a utility the utility
of a thing like Aurora even when you
have spy satellites is that you know
when spy satellites are coming over and
you can scoot and hide from them you
don't know when a Hypersonic aircraft is
coming over uh or you don't have much
warning time so there was real utility
in this thing but you know if you take
General Muller's advice at face value um
this thing just filled a gap and when it
had done its job of filling the Gap they
went back to spy satellites M
interesting that's an interesting Theory
you know the technology is one thing but
actually it's sort of really more a
journey of the mind it's about the
notion that you know there are some
things that we might never ever know
about and we have to live with that and
and that's that can be frustrating for
people I mean it was frustrating for me
at the
time and how do you how do you shake out
on all this I know we're kind of
wrapping up here but how how do you um
do you think that Aerospace made real
breakthroughs and anti-gravity do you
think they didn't where you know where
where do where are they
now well you know I again our interview
sadly abruptly stopped recording here
due to some mysterious AV difficulties
at our Studios right at a pivotal time
in which Nick cook was answering maybe
the most important question but I think
it's sort of fitting for this topic and
it does Justice to the healthy Nuance of
the hunt for zero
point if you take my friend and founder
of army Futures command Carl Nell's
statements in the debrief to be true
then we're in an arms race right now
with the Russians and the Chinese to
reverse engineer UFOs if that's the case
the US government should be very worried
the American programs are balkanized
siloed in these old stodgy corporations
that hit their peaks in the 50s and 60s
they're not hiring America's best and
brightest because they don't want to
risk losing their super secret IP isn't
it in their best interest to just get
immunity for themselves and try to
refresh the talent pool if these people
are you know it's they're all old and
it's completely compartmentalized and
they haven't made you know the Wilson
they're completely arrogant completely
arrogant but you can be sure that the
Russians and Chinese with their
nationalized and centralized efforts are
recruiting their best scientists to work
on these topics they're not worried
about losing profits they're focused
instead on National
Defense I also think that as far as
pushing disclosure around the
ontological truth behind a lot of this
secret science and the UFO question the
National Security argument just seems to
get lawmakers attention much faster than
anything else finally I think that all
technology is dual use an Academia has
completely stagnated and is stuck in the
wrong Frameworks so if we can funnel
more money and resources into these
heterodox science projects we can make
progress much faster personally I'm far
more interested in the potential for
this technology to actually take us
Interstellar and if we do live in a
Multiverse as physicists and the public
love to theorize these days then
cracking gravity might be the key to
Jumping
timelines in general relativity gravity
and time are tightly coupled so the only
way to manipulate time would involve the
manipulation of gravity an all true
Interstellar travel would require time
travel or space-time metric
Engineering in the 1950s the future was
an exciting thing we weren't locked into
this AI dystopian nightmare we find
ourselves in today if we figure out the
gravity question maybe we can get back
to the future or in the words of the
great Donnie Darko learn to travel in
God's
Channel I hope you all enjoyed this and
learned something I want to thank Nick
cook for his time and his excellent book
The Hunt for zero point please go out
and read it along with his new amazing
serialized book on substack the light
beyond the mountains which I'm linking
in the description till next time I'm
Jesse Michaels and this is American
Alchemy